Swamp
Before we met, I often wondered if I could handle Crisis. When I did get to meet Crisis, he shot me twice. He then threw me off of a cliff, and I fell into a muddy swamp at the bottom. That was how I found that I could handle him.
It was May. The sun was shining. I was in high school, and I had been giving my life to an organization that performed community service, where I was an officer. Every month, I led three four-hour excursions into the abyss to help the degenerate oftentimes because I felt sympathy, sometimes because the process of doing mundane tasks calmed my mind. I was infected with commitment. This was the end of my officer term.
The email was terse. We would like to discuss the future of your involvement in the organization. Typical performance review or vague wording for a promotion, I thought.
His eyes were steely, cold, and inhuman. He fired me and washed his hands, cleanly, without regrets he was heading to college, after all. I was so stunned I did not know where to look. I noticed, then, how ridiculous his orange hair was  like a cartoon character drawn by a kid in elementary school. Orie (that was his name) the Orange Orangutan! I thought.
All the work I put in during two years evaporated in an instant. He told me that I wasn't communicative or committed enough. Just a week earlier I sent him a Facebook message informing him of everything I was looking at in terms of volunteer opportunities, and an email informing him that I would step up to a vacancy another officer left at an event. It was then that my stomach gave way. I had been cursed from birth with a bad stomach. It felt buoyed, uncomfortable, numb, and all of a sudden not present. I dashed toward the restroom stall, the contents of my unzipped backpack pouring out onto the gray, hideous, urine-stained floor.
I thought about how I would tell my parents and my college counselor. I thought about my future and my career. I walked around the school without knowing where I was going, biting my lip. I had never been fired before.
Lunchtime. It finally ended. Time moved slower, the people became uglier, and the rooms seemed smaller and more prison-like. 
But Crisis wasn't done with me yet. After Hiroshima comes Nagasaki.
Almost immediately after lunch, I learned that I was being given an AP Chinese Test, a major exam, two weeks before I was scheduled to take it. It was a violent rescheduling. I was not prepared at all that day. I was told that this was the only opportunity I had to take the test that year.
I had no choice but to accept my firing and take the exam before I was even remotely ready. The simultaneous transpiring of two unbelievably awful events made me feel as if my head would unscrew and detach. I wanted to surrender to Crisis and terminate my participation in this world. My career was finished, my hopes of getting into a college gone, my life in motion.
Hypothetically, Crisis the drill sergeant shakes a recruit so much that the recruit shatters and falls apart. But unexpectedly down-low, stuck in a muddy bottom, I found that the sheer viscosity of the terribleness of the situation made it hard for me to tremble. As one traverses a muddy bog or a thick swamp, I began to move with careful, calculated, planned, deliberate, slow, steady steps. 
The test was loud and obnoxious. Because certification of Mandarin proficiency required a spoken component, obnoxious teenage girls screamed at the microphone, then screamed at the proctors because the microphones did not work. Normally I would be insanely distracted by this. But I acquired, at that moment of incredible misfortune, an incredible focus and calm. I began to climb out of the swamp. I could not do anything other than concentrate on the test, because I could not think about too much. The buzzing in my head from extreme trauma acted as noise-cancellation. I had a cold resolve and a will to survive.
I am a vindictive person. For months afterwards, I planned multiple ways to screw the organization and get my high school registrar (who screwed up my testing schedule) fired. But I decided not to. Pain forces a degree of immobility. I was still being contacted by multiple charity organizations hoping to arrange an event with me (in relationship to the organization); the pain and the constant reminders were unbearable. I gave them the contact information of the new Activities Directors of the organization and told them to never contact me again. However, the forwarding of opportunities to the organization I used to hold too tightly in my hand was the reason why I was re-hired later on. My natural response to misery inadvertently saved me. 
Injustice is a catalyst for an engine of determination. The time after the nuclear attacks was among the most productive, successful, and happy in my life. I was freed, where I did less but did better. Severance from the organization brought less prestige but also fewer time obligations. The next year, I decided to apply for officership again to face down the nightmare. I knew I did well, but recognized that I could have done better. I conveyed this on my second job application with a linguistic tour-de-force that only comes after being slammed in the ego. 
I went on to become re-hired as the President of the organization I was fired from - the largest club on campus; and I got a five on the AP test - the highest possible score. 
I had no disaster plan. I had watched and wondered (in books and films) about whether Churchill, Lincoln, Bush, or Augustus had one. Maybe I didn't need one. Crisis triggered something in me: a steadiness, a focus, something that forced me to do things I did not know I could. I beat Crisis because he taught me how to.
I once wondered about my ability to handle a crisis, a situation of great misfortune akin to falling off a cliff. I survived the crash, and my broken spirits re-formed and hardened.
When things are too bad to be true, you get a certain focus. A survival instinct is activated, and Crisis becomes a ballet instructor. He'll guide your movements so they effect power and grace. It is a remarkable thing that you have only experienced if you went through the hellish dance session.
One day, before I met Crisis, I watched my mother struggle to walk around the house because of knee pain. I feared this foreshadowed what was to come. No one ever beat old age. Every nerve in my body went aflame and numb at once. I went to bed terrified that night, fearing that when the day came, when our roles were switched, I would not be able to take care of her. When Crisis struck, I thought he would knock me out because I had never met him before. 
I thank God for introducing me to Crisis.
