Boundaries
In order to escape the Purgatory of mediocrity, I have sought to live on the extremities. It is at the margins where things are the most interesting. To do things differently was perhaps a byproduct of my heavily scripted existence, but perhaps it was something else.
Walt Whitman once observed that "the powerful play goes on, and you may contribute a verse." What a pontificating idiot. If all you live for is to be able to contribute possibly a small verse in a scripted play, you live in a very small area and do not have much room for movement. The powerful play goes on, and you may throw an apple, an egg, or whatever else you please. Once the play ends, there is not much to throw at. I threw while I still had time.
The extremities excite curiosity, a potent drug. In fourth grade, everyone in my class was instructed to find an instrument to learn and practice. There was a demo day where every classical concert band and orchestra instrument was on trial for people to play with. I played the noticeable - trumpet, the popular - violin, the weird - saxophone, the second most popular - clarinet, the elegant - flute, and this weird thing that had a slide and sounded like flatulence. I chose the trombone: the most impractical instrument possible because it could not fit inside of my mother's car. But it grew on me. I played the eccentric instrument in fourth grade and for five years afterwards. I was the only one in the class and the school that played the trombone. It was difficult to find others like me. The music shop did not have the supplies I needed in stock. The Southern Region of the San Francisco Bay Area only offered two instructors who taught trombone. The trombone moved smoothly, with elegance (devoid of the awkwardness of buttons) and drew eyeballs; itís brass coat shined with the polish of individuality. It vibrated and emanated confidence: confidence in being singular ñ different ñ a unique voice in a large crowd. 
In high school, I ditched the trombone and began to pursue the visual arts. I found photography to be the most interesting form of visual expression, along with only two other people (there were over 500 people in my class, over 3000 people at my school). It enabled me to freeze and manipulate time, which previously I thought a permanently mobile, flowing medium. When I did figure photography out, I found out that few others had. Literally, I saw the world through several different lenses ñ and apertures and shutter speeds. Photography was regulated to the outliers because of its prohibitively high cost of entry (DSLR bodies, Lenses, Speedlightís, tripods, and other equipment reached into the thousands of dollars), but also because doing digital or analog photography well required mastery of an inanely complicated technical skill-set. This was off-putting, tedious, and distasteful. But those that stuck with it saw something new. 
Physically, I discovered that out of all the sports America offered, badminton was the one for me. This was inconvenient because my high school did not have a badminton court. I would walk into conversations about Football, Baseball, Soccer, Swimming, and Diving, and interject: ìHey, did you guys see Lee Chong Wei win the Olympics yesterday?î People stared dumbly, and probably wondered who Lee Chong Wei was.
The Trombone, Photography and Badminton were interesting because they were hidden. The fact that there were unexpectedly delighting was the reason I was drawn to them. I peeked under the bed of traditional hobbies and found something new.
Hobbies arenít all of life. I like people with a different view. I was drawn to the only self-proclaimed libertarian/conservative in hyper-liberal, echo-chamber school. Ideas on the margin ñ even unpopular ones ñ are worth hearing loudly and clearly. Ignoring the margin is dangerous. Moreover, one who lives on the extremities takes these ideas seriously, for he recognized the crowd and simple majority are not always right. Later, towards the end of my childhood, I chose to go to a college that no one I talked to has ever heard of amidst acceptances from several very well-known institutions. I chose to dedicate four years and an enormous sum of money to something on the margin. This caps my record as an eccentric decision maker, a quality that has frustrated my parents immensely.
I live in the margins of life. Sometimes.
Exploring the extremities ultimately grants one with a sense of realism. It gives you a larger perspective because by looking at all the edges, you are forced to see the whole picture: even yourself. 
I've realized that I am not always different. I am placed all too often in the center. I am neither well known nor well remembered. I come in in the middle of rankings. I was dead center in my freshman PE class. I score averages on tests. I look neither too nerdy nor too cool. I am neither too fat nor too fit, too fast nor too slow. I am different and the same. I am an average. The two words used most commonly to describe me are neither and nor. 
You can't always be different and do different things. Inevitably one is regulated to the gravity of sameness.
How do I navigate this dichotomy, then? How am I different and the same?
Everyone tries to be different in some ways, which means that ironically, they are at least similar in one way. Only a select few pride themselves on having nothing unique. Paradoxically, all people are the same as they seek to be different. All people seek to test life as they do a new electrical appliance or a powerful motor vehicle - to examine its upper and lower limits to validate that it in fact works. The blender of life is turned on the highest speed and the lowest chopping mode. The car of life is revved and then taken on the racetrack to see if it in fact reaches its self-proclaimed maximum speed and minimum turn radius (or, today, its average MPG). Life is the same as a new consumer appliance in that it is often used at its limits so the living knows that it works. The extremities validate existence. This is why everyone moves towards them. Everyone hates disorder and increases entropy. 
I saw the weird and the unusual at the boundaries to see the entire picture of life. But one day, I decided to look beyond that: to see the frame, the wall, the backdrop, the museum, and the city outside. I wanted to see life in context.
The bridge was 84 meters above the river. This is high enough to kill. I leaned over the railing, my stomach sank, my pupils dilated, and my heart rate increased. I dropped.
It occurred to me, as I stood on the ledge, that I was witnessing and was about to witness the same sight of those who jumped to their death. I had the opportunity to look at death. Had it not been for one big rubber band, I would not have lived to tell the tale.
Freud pointed to the fact that humans often arbitrarily and unnecessarily make war as evidence that they have, as he called it, a death instinct, Thanatos. Modern psychologists point to sports as an example of this. I have a fear of heights, which is why I told my parents I went bungee jumping. But in reality, I wanted to see what it was like to nearly die. No one except me thought about it this way, perhaps out of fear. No one wanted to compound an already extreme sport. But I had to think about it this way because of curiosity. I had to see what it was like to die, the reach the gates of death and be barely snatched back; quickly, violently, arbitrarily. Curiosity meant that the ultimately extremity was one that I had to explore, lest I be blind to the picture of life - in effect - dead anyways.
Here's a tautology: you cannot test whether life works once it breaks permanently. You cannot go bungee jumping, play the trombone, take photos, live on the extremities, and risk your life if you are dead. If you don't walk on the tightrope of extremities, if you don't test whether life works, if you live comfortably in the middle and never try anything weird or new, you might as well not live at all. A machine turned off produces the same effect as a machine that is broken.
I turned the machine on, put it to the test, and ran it at full speed. I jumped off the bridge, and strangely was very calm. I floated. The rocks began to resolve themselves in greater and greater detail. Silence endured as I saw death, clearer and clearer now. I wanted to touch it, to hit the ground, but just 4 feet above the river, I was yanked back, like a yo-yo on the end of a string. Time stopped for a moment, as I neither moved up nor down at the peak of the parabola, as life proved that it works.
Gravity pulls one down towards the similarities - in the end we are all the same, dead - but I flew for as long as I could.
